Lab:03 Imperative Commands in Kubernetes
Task:1 create a namespace, a deployment and a service
Execute Below commands in a Sequence 
kubectl create ns tester
kubectl run webserver --image=nginx -n tester
kubectl expose deployments webserver --port 8080 --type LoadBalancer -n tester
Explanation:
•	run: Create a new Deployment object to run Containers in one or more Pods.
•	expose: Create a new Service object to load balance traffic across Pods.
Task: 2 set labels on a deployment, scale pods in deployment, set environment variable
Execute below commands 
kubectl label deployment webapp app=frontend
kubectl scale --replicas 3 deployment webapp
kubectl set env deployment/webapp WHOAMI="HAL 9000"

Explanation:
•	scale: Horizontally scale a controller to add or remove Pods by updating the replica count of the controller.
•	annotate: Add or remove an annotation from an object.
•	label: Add or remove a label from an object.
•	set <field>: Set an aspect of an object.


Task:3  Edit any object in-place using kubectl edit. 
Execute below commands  to  edit manifest  in editor
kubectl edit deployment/nginx-deployment
kubectl edit svc/nginx-service # Edit the service

Use below command to patch nginx-deployment object to update the replicas field from 4.
kubectl patch deployment nginx-deployment -p'{"spec":{"replicas":4}}'


Explanation:
Using patch, objects field can be updated on the fly without having to open up in editor. patch also allows for more complex updates with various merging and patching strategies.

Task:4 View Objects  

Use following command to view objects 

kubectl get deployments # or deploy for shortform
kubectl get replicasets # gets replica set
kubectl get pods # gets pods
kubectl get deployment webapp -o yaml
kubectl describe deployment webapp
kubectl logs deployment/webapp --since 5m > /tmp/logs.txt

Explanation:
•	get: Prints basic information about matching objects. Use get -h to see a list of options.
•	describe: Prints aggregated detailed information about matching objects.
•	logs: Prints the stdout and stderr for a container running in a Pod.
Task:5 Delete Objects 

kubectl delete deployment/nginx

Explanation:
•	delete command can be used to delete an object from a cluster
